---
title: "My Favorite Film Scores of 2023"
date: 2023-11-16
---

Before we begin, special mention has to be made of the soundtrack for the existential comedy that surprised us all, *Barbie*. The score by Mark Ronson and Andrew Wyatt is playful but smartly gets out of the way of the exuberant cast. *Barbie the Album*, meanwhile is full of head-spinning delights that are essential to the film and can't be separated. The height of the hopefully-timeless pop hits is Dua Lipa's disco Greek chorus ["Dance the Night"](https://youtu.be/OiC1rgCPmUQ?si=_Ev4oqBM2Ug76pmV), which includes this, the correct Mood verse of 2023:

> Lately, I've been moving close to the edge / Still be lookin' my best / I stay on the beat, you can count on me / I ain't missin' no steps

---

Oops, a second special mention has to go to the opening track of Laura Krupman's score for *The Marvels*, ["Higher. Further. Faster. Together."](https://youtu.be/hbT4OzJEetg?si=XNZIZzRDUxhh6LiF) The unfairly crippled blast of a film comes out strong with confident, playful heroism that takes notes from Michael Giacchino - big hand-held crash cymbals, soaring strings, counter-rhythms that bring the whole orchestra together in a collective shout of "LET'S HAVE SOME FUN TONIGHT." I adore it.

Anyways, here we go, thoughts on my favorite movie scores the year.

---

## The Disquieting Blues of *Killers of the Flower Moon*, Robbie Robertson

Alongside the immersive production design and wonderful cinematography, the stripped-down score for *Flower Moon* is a standout element of Scorsese's latest, and one of the only things I liked about the film.

Robertson, who passed away in August 2023 and to whom the film is dedicated, uses a lot of booming frame drums and rattling textures as a foundation, then lets a blues guitar or harmonica aptly stumble around drunkenly like it knows what it's doing. The ratio of Osage-themed instruments to the blues guitar (notably an instrument also stolen from black people and fashioned to represent white people in "The West") correlates directly to how centered the Osage are in the scene - "Tribal Council" has none; "Not if it's Illegal" is made out of drawling licks on the guitar. The modernity of the score's propulsive pace and smart minimalism ties in with Scorsese's thesis of reminding people that this history is more modern than they think, and so true to the proverbial fabric of America that it can't be ignored. 

Compared to the spaghetti-inspired, old-film pomposity of Woody Jackson's work on the score for *Red Dead Redemption 2* (2019) - which looms large for me in the "Modern Western" oeuvre - or the later quieter, romantic pieces for the same game by David Ferguson & Matt Sweeney as part of the excellent *The Housebuilding EP*, Robertson's score is more confident in shedding tropes and motifs of the pseudo-genre and is better for it. The bravado of "Osage Oil Boom", which the listener is flung  into without pause from the traditional, eternal-feeling "(Intro) The Sacred Pipe", re-contextualizes the cowboy aesthetic some might have been assuming they'd get when entering the theater and is an incredible, shape-shifting track, arguably one of the best in the score with a steam train-like momentum. Its arrogance is front and center, and it seeds some of the foreboding tension that the rest of the film is full of.

If any criticism can be levied against it, which one is hesitant to do for a lot of reasons, it's that the score feels less critical than one would like given the subject matter (a recurring critique of all of Scorsese's work by the way - films like *Goodfellas* and *Wolf of Wall Street* aren't called "douchebag classics" for no reason, and indeed *Killers of the Flower Moon* is receiving some blowback for its choice of central character). Robertson makes some fucked up shit and horrific situations *sound* pretty darn cool - the shifty, sliding guitar performances throughout are full of machismo and swagger, and "Insulin Train" is almost funky like a sick heist film, even as it heralds the beginning of one of the most heinous acts of personal violence I can think of. The tracks "Heartbeat Theme" and "Salvation Adagio" feel like he buys into the romance that is supposed to be at the heart of the film, but I never bought it when watching and so these pieces feel false. *Killers of the Flower Moon* is arguably a slow burn horror movie, and the score on the whole doesn't end up reflecting that. It's part re-framing of a "New Western" aesthetic, part museum piece (there are period-styled pieces throughout the film not done entirely by Robertson that are immersive during the film, and probably worth studying outside of it, but not my jam), part tone poem, all of it filled with the dread of being surrounded by wolves.

Special mention has to be made of the incredible score for the [official trailer](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EP34Yoxs3FQ) for the film, which [features Indigenous singers collaborating with a Canadian rock band](https://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/calgary/alberta-bullhorn-singers-reuben-dark-1.7003858) to create one of the most hard-hitting, perfectly unsettling trailer edits of recent memory. Yet another example of a trailer distilling a film down to what it feels like it *should* be, rather than what it is.

## The Delicate Math of *Oppenheimer*, Ludwig Göransson

Soundtracks have been leaning into the math of late, notably with Bear McCreary's first season of *Foundation* (2021), Max Richter's score for *Ad Astra* (2019), and many others who have employed the magic of arpeggios, but of course with all credit due to the masters themselves Daft Punk for their influential score for *Tron: Legacy* (2010).

This is to say that Göransson has blown them all out of the water in that department with a single track. "Can You Hear the Music", which accompanies the titular, controversial figurehead of Robert Oppenheimer as he tumbles into his obsessive scientific journey to split the atom - for good and ill - is a masterpiece of music, full stop. In many ways I cannot describe due to an inadequate vocabulary, but the arpeggiated tempo changes, the spiraling strings dancing up and down the scales, the Zimmer-esque brass that starts grounded and becomes ethereal over the course of a single note, like an air-raid siren from another world - it's all brilliant, and Göransson deserves the Oscar for it alone. 

The technique returns on "American Prometheus"; "Trinity" takes the mathematics and applies them to organic, frightening strings, as the project is realized; and "Destroyer of Worlds" as the movie reminds you, at its very end, that these events shaped your world as you know it today.

The rest of the soundtrack is frequently transcendent with its delicate, intimate instrumentation, which is maybe not what one would expect for the movie given its subject matter. The opening track, "Fission", invites you in to an interior world where math and science dance in the minds of these strange men who re-shaped the world with fire. As it falls apart two minutes in, the horror settles in for but a moment. "Is anyone going to tell the truth about what is happening here?", as Oppenheimer says in the film. 

(Perfectly, I might add, by Cillian Murphy, who to use a a cliché phrase, might have been born to play the role, and his delivery of crucial lines over the edit of "American Prometheus" in the first trailer for the film are hypnotic, hitting even harder than they do in the film proper.)

The score makes it perfectly clear that no one can tell a singular truth about the Manhattan Project or its strange leader, whose definitive biography was published in only 2005; the transcripts of the infamous hearing that stripped him of his legacy for so long weren't declassified until 2014. For 60 years not enough was known about his story, and now 78 years later most people will feel the ache in their bones at the power and horror of what he created, and the drops of rain on the window might echo through their minds. The movie itself is a massive achievement for Nolan, who put everything he had into it in a way that is seen on screen; if Director of Photography Hoyte Van Hoytema was his right-hand man, Göransson was his left, and their expressive, equally esoteric contributions to the film do what was needed to elevate it.

## The Hyper-kinetic Chaos of *Across the Spider-Verse*, Daniel Pemberton

Like *Across the Spider-Verse* itself, Pemberton's score is overwhelmingly maximalist and overflowing with creativity, which makes it a slightly exhausting tour de force. The audacity to open the film with an animated drum solo itself is quite the calling card - explosions of color and visual effects follow Gwen's solid, crescendoing playing and launches us right into the emotional turmoil of the film. Everything is off balance, but barreling ahead. The plausible argument that Gwen Stacy is the heart of the film is backed up by the dynamics of the score that follows her.

The incredible breadth of instrumentation on the score is worth noting. Pemberton is still experimenting with synths: the howling cry of Miguel O'Hara's theme ("Spider-Man 2099"), now painfully meme'd to an inch of its life, is an incredible piece of sound design, communicating the anguish he feels, his deadly resolve, and the unpredictable lengths he'll go to. Miles' record scratches are accompanied with big brassy hits and something that almost sounds like a children's toy being sampled on "My Name is... Miles Morales" - it's fun and funny but scrambled up inside, trying to keep it all together. Elsewhere there are tablas, scitars, finger cymbals, and male vocal shouts accompanied by a bubbly FM synth and more melodic record scratches for Pavitr Prabhakar's theme ("Spider-Man India"); Hobie Brown ("Spider-Punk") gets a British Invasion sound full of heavy distortion that feels modern and yet old-school, at least until the end of his introduction track where the maximalism starts to attack one's ears. (A fun side note - on the soundtrack as opposed to the original score, Hobie's introductory track is "On the Run" by Cerebral Ballzy, which is fun to write.)

Even as Pemberton's dynamics keep up with the pace of the story - *Across the Spider-Verse* feels longer than it is, so much happens - fatigue sets in and on tracks like "Falling Apart" everything feels so turned up to eleven that there simply isn't any more room in the mix for things to get louder, and when instruments fall away in the last minute, there's not even a few seconds before a familiar theme (O'Hara's) reaches up from the depths again. In IMAX the bass in the soundtrack is ever-present, not letting up for much of a moment. It's a lot.

And yet, the filmmakers and Pemberton deliver a solid close to their full-on flex of a movie. "Across the Spider-Verse (Start a Band)" brings us somewhere new, remixes themes from *Into the Spider-Verse*'s villain Howler, samples literal screams of an innocent populace, and brings Stacey's break-beat drums and big guitar to let you know "we're nowhere near done here." It's a showstopper that brings a dynamism and modernity to film scores rarely seen anywhere else, and the goosebumps that ensue are impossible to deny even as you're almost begging for a moment to catch your breath.
