---
title: Argylle is One of the Worst Movies I’ve Ever Seen
date: 2024-02-06
slug: "argylle-is-really-bad"
---

The first red flag was Henry Cavill's haircut in the trailer. The second red flag, also from the trailer, was the obnoxious title card "FROM THE TWISTED MIND OF MATTHEW VAUGN". The third red flag was [this BBC One interview](https://youtu.be/KOi56bSn3ew?si=Zahkp6YxQQqRWKe—) where the venerable Ali Plumb tries his best to find anything to talk about but can't because of all supposed twists and turns of this "meta" spy adventure.

That video is what made me want to spend a Bargain Tuesday seeing it, ironically, because surely this cast is so charming, that'll be enough, right? *Surely*?

[Spoilers for *Argylle*, but I promise you don't care please keep reading.]

Every single element of *Argylle* is bad. The cinematography is bad; the score is bad; the needle drops are bad; the costumes are bad; the sound design is bad. The action design, for which Vaughn is known for (for better and worse), is bad. The script — if a script was at all used to make this film — is bad. Usefully, all these elements are bad because Matthew Vaughn is a bad director. Unlike most movies, where you must mention in good faith that everyone must have been trying to make something good but it just doesn't work out, every bad decision for a movie like this should be laid at the feet of its director, whose trademarks are splattered all over the movie without any consideration.(That title card now reads as a *mea culpa*, or maybe a washing of the hands.)

It can be refreshing when a movie is bad — you can let tension out by shouting about it in the car, or commiserate with the folks exiting the bathroom, or warn people away from wasting their time and money like you did. You can balk at the $200 million price tag and feel *schadenfreude* at the [dismal box office return](https://variety.com/2024/film/news/box-office-argylle-bombs-18-million-debut-1235896784/). 

But *Argylle* is something more frustrating, and therefore worse — it's not rotten down to its very core, which is that an author of a series of spy novels gets told her novels too closely mirror real life. Where it goes from there is a disaster disastrously told, and that annoys me because that core is perfectly good, and there's lots one could have done there if you were, unlike Vaughn, a storyteller who at all cares about elements of a work building upon one another and contributing to its meaning. (He does not. He loves different shapes of pasta and he loves seeing what happens when they are thrown at the wall from his highchair.)

Story structure exists to maximize the impact of every element. When a story drives me insane, it's usually because it feels like the structure underneath (if there is one) isn't maximizing the possible impact of the other elements of the story, which usually ends up making the story feel like it doesn't mean anything. It's like cooking — maximize the flavor of every ingredient. Use the fond! *Argylle* has no interest in structure, so nothing means anything. (Multiple times things happen in this movie and then a character goes "enough of that, we gotta go!")

Here are some free ideas that I think could have worked with *Argylle*'s interest in spy fiction pastiche and authorship, the borders between reality and fiction, etc. and, I think, might have made the story mean something, *anything*:

1. A spy agency comes to spy fiction author Elly Conway (Bryce Dallas Howard) for consulting because she's writes so authentically. (See [Tom Clancy being investigated by the FBI](https://www.baltimoresun.com/2014/09/27/fbi-files-show-details-of-background-checks-on-author-tom-clancy-2/)) and gets swept up in a conspiracy and learns that she is both more capable and less capable than she thinks.
2. Elly Conway is an author with writer's block, a total shut-in. One day she is kidnapped and goes on a wild spy adventure, learning to live life off the page. The whole thing is a ruse by her publisher to break her writer's block. Or was, until it accidentally became real. She breaks out of her routine and not only finishes her novel, but starts writing a completely different genre.
3. Elly Conway has lived with her characters so long that they're starting to show up in her every day life. When she listens to them she's taken away on a whirlwind adventure that the FBI thinks is the beginning of a conspiracy and takes too seriously. Hijinks ensue and she is forced to reconsider her fiction and how much of her life it takes up, and who she is outside of it.
4. Elly Conway is an author of a famous series of spy novels who was in fact a real spy and had an accident that made her forget and start her life over. (In the movie this happens but she is brainwashed, because ugh) Her latest book is a hit, but unfortunately it contains verifiable state secrets that uncover a conspiracy and put a rogue group of spies on her tail. She's forced to confront her past and join the fight — but like in her books, who are the good guys?

I could go on and on, my point being that a bad movie is sometimes simply a bad movie, and other times it's a great excuse to dream up a better story, and that might even help in your own writing. I should get back to that instead of writing fan fiction for Henry Cavill to star in.

P.S., because I couldn't find anywhere else to put it in this post: no one in this movie acts *like a fucking spy*. It doesn't properly settle on what kind of spy pastiche it's obsessed with — golden-age James Bond, hyper-kinetic Jason Bourne, smarter-than-you Le Carre ouevre. It name drops the first and last of those, of course, but not a single character in here does any spy verbs. If you're supposed to love what you parody (is this a parody?? Not even), you should also be at least vaguely fucking aware of how it even works.