---
title: 'Weeknotes 2025-51'
date: '2025-12-16T12:11:40-05:00'
subtitle:
summary:
tags: [weeknotes]
---

Last week was dominated by a family funeral. It was very Catholic and very South Massachusetts: the funeral home coordinator was an Irish guy a few years older than me who had the routine locked down; his team was a flock of older men in scally caps and black leather gloves. The church for mass was “St. Tim’s”, and the priest underhandedly set the expectation that if you didn’t go up for communion, you were to come up for a blessing, indicated by crossing your hands over your chest like you were about to be buried in the sea. It’s hard to be punk rock about it when you’re sitting behind the widow and her sons, so a few of us grumbled and got in line.

It’s not like it’s about you anyways; the tradition makes it clear that neither you as mourners nor the deceased themselves matter compared to Jesus, who if you forgot, died that one time.

I hope it’s coming across that I wasn’t thrilled to be there. I’ve studied religions and had my paganism phase all to land on a bemused indifference covering up a principled distaste. That is until I’m feeling a moist thumb across my forehead and can feel it ten minutes later, the opposite of sanctified.

The spiritual part taken care of, there were real people to attend to and while it’s not the best way to gather, it is *a* way to gather, and seeing family is something we cherish. In the shadow of grief there’s light to be found. I’m ironically reminded of being brought up in the Unitarian Universalist church, the chief symbol of which is a guarded chalice.

\*

Talking about *earthly concerns*, yuk yuk, but as part of learning how to winter – per last week’s notes – I invested in new jackets to fend off the frigid start to the season. I’m obsessed with my new [Fjallraven Skogsö](https://www.fjallraven.com/us/en-us/men/jackets/winter-jackets/skogso-padded-jacket-m/) in the gorgeous “Autumn Leaf” color; it’s the nicest jacket I’ve ever owned and I’ve been walking in 10-20 degrees like it’s nothing.

For the funeral I needed to buy another “I should have already had one” staple in the form of a wool overcoat, and I got a gorgeous one for a good deal that makes me feel great and invisible at the same time.

Yesterday I got new glasses; over the weekend I replaced my shabby Allbirds with sneakers with real support; today I got a needed pre-holiday haircut. I’m spending too much money, but it feels like I’m bolstering my sense of self in the face of winter and the grindstone of work.

\*

Aren’t these things supposed to be about what I ate or cool stuff I did or something? Here’s some things like that I guess:

- I’m getting into the [Strudel](https://strudel.cc/) music coding language, which finally clicked with this video of some [sick EDM](https://youtu.be/ZCcpWzhekEY?si=ZiVq7x47P3lMVHQb) made with far less code than I thought.
  - I’ve previously tried out [VCV Rack](https://vcvrack.com/) to learn modular synthesis but found that building sounds from scratch is *really hard* and it was just a touch too skeuomorphic to enjoy on a screen.
- [*Arcadia*](https://music.youtube.com/playlist?list=OLAK5uy_k07CAFSynHHxZFdNYi_aeM20VPJzCYzww&si=HIYzoOk0O7_jqNM0) by Allison Krauss & Union Station is a really wonderful Americana album that switches vocalists and vibes every track.
- My comfort replay of *The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt – Blood & Wine* (2019) sparks endless joy. The fish-out-of-water feel of Geralt in the land of Touissant is arguably even better than him being at home in the mud and misery of the base game.
- I made tried and true beef stew over the weekend and it came out fabulous. There is a direct correlation to how many local ingredients I use to how great it comes out.