---
title: 'The Letterboxd 500'
date: '2025-05-03T11:16:49-04:00'
subtitle: Eight years of gut reactions at the picture palace
summary: I’ve described [Letterboxd](https://letterboxd.com/) as “one of the last good websites”. It’s a single-topic social network with great features and design, what else do you need? I recently hit 500 films logged in my diary and I thought it’d be fun to look back and see how I’ve used Letterboxd since 2017.
---

I’ve described [Letterboxd](https://letterboxd.com/) as “one of the last good websites”. It’s a single-topic social network with great features and design, what else do you need? I recently hit 500 films logged in my diary and I thought it’d be fun to look back and see how I’ve used Letterboxd since 2017.

My **first** diary entry was on May 19th, 2017 – almost eight years ago! – and unfortunately it’s a dud. I gave *Guardians of the Galaxy, Vol. 2* (2017) one and a half stars because I was bored by it; it didn’t have the benefit of surprise like the first *Guardians* movie and it went hard on  saccharine in the way that James Gunn has decided is his oeuvre.

My **500th entry** was a semi-ironic five-star review of the sun-drenched, laid-back rom-com *[Letters to Juliet](https://letterboxd.com/film/letters-to-juliet/)* (2010). Emily and I watched it, predicted every turn, and then cheered like we were at a concert when it came true. 

“Rom-com as spectator sport” is one of my favorite genres, and a healthy amount of my highest-rated movies on Letterboxd – and memorable evenings captured in the diary – are movies like *[Palm Springs](https://letterboxd.com/film/palm-springs-2020/)* (2020), *[The Princess Diaries](https://letterboxd.com/film/the-princess-diaries/)* (2001), and of course *[10 Things I Hate About You](https://letterboxd.com/film/10-things-i-hate-about-you/)* (1999), which instantly became one of my favorite movies ever. What can I say, I love love. This is why *[The Fall Guy](https://letterboxd.com/film/the-fall-guy-2024/)* (2024) is the most recent entry to my hall of fame – it’s a rom-com with explosions and movie-making. Perfection.

Sifting through the strata I could quibble with my ratings, but I’ve always tossed the stars out there as a gut reaction, sometimes when the lights have just come up in the theater. They’re a snapshot of my eyes and ears and heart in that moment when the spell was strongest.

Meanwhile I could throw all my written reviews on Letterboxd out with the bathwater, to be honest. Over time the site’s most popular reviews have trended towards tweet-length, ironic humor that takes a wit and abandon I don’t have – my reviews have been too sincere, too long, or attempting the form and failing. I think I’m okay with that; I don’t want to be “the @dril of movie nerds”. 

Something I’ve come to grips with over the years is that I adore movies, but I am not singularly devoted to them; they’re not my everything. My reviews aren’t very good because I have less to say than I thought. What’s great about Letterboxd is that that’s okay, it doesn’t demand anything of you other than giving a film a shot. (Pun intended.) I’m here to watch the thing, to fall into it is as best I can.

I love how sharing your cabinet of curiosities can succinctly spell out so much about yourself. If you came to my apartment you’d see my 300+ blu-ray discs and DVDs, but I can hand you my Letterboxd top four and you’ll get the idea: 

- *Jurassic Park*
- *The Princess Bride*
- *The Fall Guy*, and
- *Master and Commander: The Far Side of the World*

A last note on Letterboxd the platform: it’s refreshing to *choose* to stay on a platform, rather than feel trapped and locked in by it. I’m a proud subscriber to their Pro product because I *could* leave at any time – you can download your entire account as a .CSV file, it’s right there in the site settings – but I don’t want to. The community, the features, the journalism the team does, the curation in email newsletters, it’s all pitch-perfect for what I hope continues to be a sustainable, small social network. We need more of these – I *should* have to log in to a different site to talk about movies than to talk about fine art or politics or web stuff, etc. Compartmentalize, diversify, have a colorful herd of places to go.