---
title: 'Weeknotes 2026-01'
date: '2025-12-29T11:24:22-05:00'
subtitle:
summary:
tags: [weeknotes]
---

Jump scare: it’s technically the [first week of 2026](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_week_date), not the last of 2025.

\*

What can you say about “the holidays” that hasn’t already been said? Ours have always been chaotic – historically we’ve done 3-4 Christmas gatherings in a handful of days, to cover all the bases – and that continued this year despite our best efforts.

We said no to one side of the family and were supposed to have a slow Christmas morning then an easy drive to dinner, but I put the address in Apple Maps wrong and we ended up going an hour in the wrong direction, on total autopilot in the grey sameness of Massachusetts’ state highways. I was the butt of the joke for the evening and that’s fine; the real defeat was shattering the illusion of this being an faux pas-free jubilee season.

My social battery was already precipitously low, so I was very thankful to find out that Emily’s uncle is a playful maniac who built a steampunk psuedo-escape room into the downstairs bathroom. Vintage lights, big toggle switches and fake valves, minor illusions, a hidden key, and a bunch of bespoke audio clips in a “radio” on the wall, all in weathered brass. It was so much fun to poke around (he made a quiz to find all the secrets and I was like a hound catching a scent, I was ON. THE. CASE.) and honestly I want to be like this when I grow up. I want property so I can build weird shit on it! I want a quail coop that’s a geodesic dome, one of those [pallet cabins](https://youtu.be/1HA4zY8xCyY?si=jHz8pIqp_2UbTiB7) in the woods behind the house, a meadow instead of a lawn, at least one arcade cabinet, and sure let’s add a very themed bathroom to the list[^1].

(Before that we went to two friend-hosted parties that were the highlight of the season, but none of them had experiences built into their bathrooms so there’s less to say; they were just exceptionally pleasant. We reunited with old friends; I took home a LEGO set from the most cordial Yankee Swap in history.)

\*

Last night we were graciously invited by Chris to see John Oliver live at the MGM in Fenway. We met up at Time Out Market and I got really delicious pasta pomodoro and bison(!) meatballs from [POE-Lenta](https://www.timeout.com/time-out-market-boston/restaurants/poe-lenta-time-out-market); lovely and balanced, comforting, and perfect portion size! I wanted something simple, I got something excellent.

The show itself was a mixed bag. Oliver’s an expert joke crafter and there were some great bits, but the central premise – that we should learn our country’s stupid and dark history to help make sense of the current moment – was entirely muddled.

His first example was daylight savings time, which started as a way to [save coal during World War I by the Germans](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Daylight_saving_time#History), so that didn’t really fit the theme. His second was the [1961 Goldsboro B-52 crash](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1961_Goldsboro_B-52_crash), which unless I’m missing something, wasn’t some kind of systemic failure or dark moment of mortal calculus; a plane malfunctioned. The nukes, blessedly, did not.

At risk of engaging with “whataboutism”, there’s a lot of other, more relevant history bits that might have been more interesting fodder, and less milquetoast. One that comes to mind is the [America First movement](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/America_First), which started in 1919 and came back 100 years later to become America’s foreign policy foundation[^2]. Dr. Seuss’s [political cartoons at the time](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/America_First#/media/File:Dr_Seuss_and_the_wolf_chewed_up_the_children.jpg) had more teeth than any joke that Oliver made.

\*

*But anyways*, it was great to see Chris and walk around the chilly city at night.

This morning, not so much! The frost-heaved brick sidewalks of the South End were treacherously slippery, the subway stations salt-crusted, and Alewife station is officially one of the most depressing public works failures in Massachusetts. I think they’ve been working on it since I was born with nothing to show for it other than tap-to-pay kiosks stapled on top of existing turnstiles.

\*

We’ll see if the weeknotes format continues in 2026. There aren’t any rules but I do feel like I’m doing it, if not wrong, than differently from intended, perhaps! We’re right on the edge of “I should be journaling this, not publishing it”, but I like what I’ve written and this an accurate representation of how this crusty flywheel of a brain works. Also, this quote comes to mind:

> “I didn't have time to write a short letter, so I wrote a long one instead.” - Mark Twain

[^1]: I’m thinking something sci-fi, like the crew quarters from *Battlestar Galactica* or *System Shock 2*.

[^2]: This is when I beg you, as I have begged many, to watch the HBO miniseries [*The Plot Against America*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Plot_Against_America_(miniseries)), based on Phillip Roth’s novel of the same title. It’s harrowing, necessary viewing.