---
title: 'Is that it? A hot take'
date: '2025-10-06T21:24:59-04:00'
subtitle: A misanthropic take about takes about the internet
summary: 
---

Hank Green’s latest Vlogbrothers video bummed me out.

It’s an entry in the “Thoughts From Places” genre the brothers Green have done many of over the years, where they talk over shots of interesting  places they’ve visited and have provoked musings. The footage is a smartphone special, so any individual frame is ugly and compressed to hell, and in motion it’s all over-sharpened and barely stabilized. There might be more pixels in the stream, but it suddenly doesn’t feel like cameras have gotten far at all since 2007. But that’s not what bummed me out.

<iframe src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/oOyQpwPrf2Q?si=Th5A_TwFZPK5vJSi" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

The place du jour is the ghost town of Garnet, Montana, and Hank gives history about the 19th century settlement, context on ghost towns as a historical concept, and a dash of [Berkeley-esque](https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/berkeley/) philosophy about the contradiction inherent in visiting ghost towns:

> But in a ghost town, the physical structures continue to exist as they were in that moment. We see it frozen in time. Though it is, of course, harder to glimpse the thing that the town was really made of, the children and the friendships and the rivalries and the music and the ambition. It’s a fossilized town. Just the buildings, none of the life. Though for Garnet, we have brought a strange kind of life back to it.

Lovely stuff! Admittedly crappy footage of a cool place and thoughts, love it. Just kidding, that’s not what the video is actually about. It’s about the internet, because everything is about the internet. Hank goes on to talk about the “ghost towns of Vine and Myspace, Neopets” and more, and gets a head start on writing an elegy for Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram, and I felt my eyes roll to the sky.

To be fair to Hank, he was responding to John’s video last week on similar subjects, and Hank Green’s entire brand is thinking about the internet and platforms and to never stop posting; I’m disappointed in the mailman for bringing mail. But I can’t stop thinking: is this it? **This** is what we’re spending our time torturing ourselves over and thinking so much about? **This** is what we’re letting rule our lives, rewire our brains, and drain our waking hours?

Compared to the history of Garnet, Montana, these so-called social networks are way less interesting to think about. I don’t think they’re worth our time. Here I am, loudly writing a post about how I’m not going to post about posting anymore, but I’m saying it anyways: I’m not going to spend time and energy thinking about the internet and what and where and why we post. Do it or don’t, but we all need to stop gazing at our navels and think about something else. Might I suggest ghost towns? The real ones.