---
title: 'Weeknotes 2025.50'
date: '2025-12-09T21:14:56-05:00'
subtitle: The art of oil changes and changing my mindset about winter.
summary: (Yes I did wait until the final weeks of 2025 to try out the [weeknotes](https://indieweb.org/week_note) format, but I was inspired by nathan and sean and allie and mariah and the cozy vibe of checking in on your friends via their blog!)
tags: [weeklynotes]
---

(Yes I did wait until the final weeks of 2025 to try out the [weeknotes](https://indieweb.org/week_note) format, but I was inspired by nathan and sean and allie and mariah and the cozy vibe of checking in on your friends via their blog!)

\*

I had to get an oil change and inspection for my car and had a weirdly pleasant time. Everyone at the dealership where I bought my car is super friendly and professional, as in they are good at their jobs and I don’t need to worry about anything. This was foreign to me compared to my job where I’m surrounded by artificially busy idiots.

The cavernous main lobby, however, is aural hell, with Christmas music reverberating limply from a random bluetooth speaker in the corner, so thank goodness they had a quiet room in the back I could retreat to.

The blissful focus of being anywhere but home meant I sat down and read 70 pages of [*Whale Fall*](https://app.thestorygraph.com/books/4d29b4ff-4749-460d-808c-4dfdcb8468c2) by Elizabeth O’Connor, which I finished later in the week and really enjoyed. Definitely capital-L Literature but tender and so incredibly specific in its depiction of a 1930s Welsh island that you fall into its rhythms. There was a beautiful passage about a boy who wrote a letter months after leaving the island and joining the British army. I took a photo of the part so I could remember it, it broke me a little:

> *If you want to write back, you can write back to the address on the back of the envelope.*\
> Then, written quickly, in pencil rather than pen. *Please write back.*

\*

On Saturday we went into Boston for MICE and it was a great time. A sweaty, utterly overstimulating time, but still good! Emily bought great art, I had good chats with artists, and watching my friends buy gorgeous prints and zines and books made me happy. I should have followed nathan around because almost everything he bought I wish I had bought! He truly is a patron of the arts and I admire it.

We got some good-ass ramen and went to Brookline Booksmith, one of my favorite bookstores on Earth, and I was absolutely extra while blathering about books and plucking favorites off the shelf, I can’t help myself.

\*

I’m a fair bit into and enjoying [*How to Winter*](https://app.thestorygraph.com/books/e2d8baa1-19a1-49ef-8559-0144a94494ab) by Kari Leibowitz; I’m trying to actively change my mindset around winter. I don’t *have* to be cold and miserable! I’ve bought two new jackets, I’ve figured out a reasonable heat schedule for the apartment, I’m drinking lots of tea and warm apple cider, and evenings are spent with books, cats, blankets, and notebooks.

As part of that I was a *lot* more of an active participant setting up the Christmas tree this year than any other year I can remember. I’ve been called a Grinch, and Emily has an old decoration of Scrooge McDuck yelling “BAH HUMBUG” that she puts near my desk every year, but we bought a big fake tree and finally have space that decorating doesn’t feel claustrophobic, so I got into it. I ordered nice lights and lit the tree and placed ornaments in pairs that made me laugh or I thought were cute.

Today I put on my new parka and stood on the porch taking big gulps of 20° air and snapping a few photos with my Olympus. I don’t know if they’re good; it doesn’t matter. Slowing down to think about nothing but taking them was the real pleasure.