---
title: 'Favorites of 2025'
date: '2025-12-21T16:21:12-05:00'
subtitle:
summary: "Let’s not dawdle: it’s been a bad year for everything except for art, which meant there was a lot of beautiful things to take shelter in and thank goodness for that. My favorite movies, books, music, game, and streaming service of 2025."
---

Let’s not dawdle: it’s been a bad year for everything except for art, which meant there was a lot of beautiful things to take shelter in and thank goodness for that.

---

## Movies

### Seeing old movies in theaters

I got to see a lot of my favorite movies back in theaters this year thanks to 4k remasters and great curation. *Monty Python and the Holy Grail*, *Kingdom of Heaven* (the director’s cut, no less!), and *Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade* all graced my local cineplex.

Then, course, there was the 30th anniversary of *Hackers* at the Somerville theater. A bonkers event with a chiptune concert, a totally unforced error of an aging cast member going onstage to say “AI is going to save us all”, and, most importantly, one person in the group who had never seen the cult classic and had no idea what the hell was going on. Pure joy. It’s as simple as seeing these magnificent movies on the big screen is the best way to see them.

Combine all that with more beloved movies getting proper 4k remasters and disc releases – *Master and Commander*, *Jaws*, *Amadeus* – and it was a wonderful year to pay reverence to favorites.

### *The Naked Gun*

Chris and I saw this in a theater with only two other people and we probably ruined it for them because we were cackling loudly the whole time. The callbacks, the commitment to the bit, the bizarre set of cultural references; it’s such a brazenly stupid movie and Liam Neeson is so in on it that it works. The *Buffy*-TiVO bit is one of the greats.

### *Avatar: Fire and Ash*

Another miracle movie, a totally complete illusion. Is it a bit of a retread of the astonishing sequel before it? Yeah, kinda. Does it have individual elements that don’t fit right, or that are a touch too silly? Yeah, sure! But this is the largest-scale opera ever created, full of pathos and beauty and fury unlike anything else. There’s a lot to say for seeing unambiguously bad people skewered by person-tall arrows and ripped apart by space squid and exploding into fireballs that reach into the stratosphere. The biggest screen offers the biggest catharsis.

### *Superman*

In the weeks leading up James Gunn’s *Superman* I had no faith. I haven’t gelled with his blend of schlock and schmaltz before and DC’s filmic output has ranged from ill-advised to embarrassing. And then this happened! *Superman* is colorful, emotional, and really freaking weird. I joked when watching *Peacemaker* that I was “shocked that James Gunn is the only person in Hollywood allowed to have a personality”, and it continues to be true. He gets away with a lot, and parts of *Superman* are worse for it, but it was such a treat to see something so singular given such a big canvas without sanding.

> Lois Lane: My point is I question everything and everyone. You trust everyone and think everyone you've ever met is, like... beautiful.\
 Superman: Maybe that's the real punk rock.

### *Wake Up Dead Man*

An actual interrogation of faith, a truly unpredictable mystery, and sharp cinematography made this a great surprise. It makes *Glass Onion* cringe-inducing in its wake, fortifies the original as a cozy classic, and makes me confident that there’ll be a lot more of these.

### *KPop Demon Hunters*

A bonafide cultural moment; a kinetic, expertly crafted non-franchise movie with a great message and irresistible soundtrack. Sometimes all it takes is giving artists everything they need – including *time* – and letting them go nuts. If I wanted to be rude I’d say the leadership at Pixar and WDAS should be embarrassed, but the truth is they’re barely in the conversation anymore. The more important part is that this movie made a lot of people happy and made us all up our car karaoke game.

### Problematic fave: *Jurassic Park Rebirth*

This is a Bad Movie. All the *Jurassic Park* movies except for *Jurassic Park* are bad *Jurassic Park* movies, so this time they gave up and made a kaiju movie and that’s why it’s a dumb fun time, alongside Jonathan Bailey giving a “I’m just happy to be here” performance that’s very charming.

### Honorable mentions

Good year for weird little freaks! These were all great, weird movies and I enjoyed them:

- *28 Years Later*
- *Black Bag*
- *Frankenstein*
- *Predator: Badlands*
- *Sinners*

### Dishonorable mentions

- *Ballerina*: Ana De Armas’ sequence in *No Time to Die* (2021) was the best part of that movie because her character was fun, funny, and deadly while drunk. This movie was no fun, no funny, and I don’t think being drunk would help.
- *Captain America: Brave New World*: This is a real movie that happened! It’s more antimatter than cinema; trying to look at it makes it unstable and helpfully disappear from your consciousness.
- *A House of Dynamite*: Waste of a brilliant premise via the worst possible structural choice. Too much limousine choreography. I'll go play *[Defcon](https://store.steampowered.com/app/1520/DEFCON/)* instead.

---

## Books

### *I Who Have Never Known Men* by Jacqueline Harpman (1995)

A devastating and haunting read. Worth not learning anything about it before beginning, just do it. There are a lot of reasons this one has become very relevant lately.

### *Eleanore of Avignon* by Elizabeth DeLozier (2024)

A perfectly small-scale historical fiction about the arrival of the Black Plague in 1300s France with a healer at its center. Lots of specific, researched medical detail alongside steely conflict with the church, the monarchy, familial expectations, and Eleanore’s sense of self-worth. I loved the medical drama coming into contact with strictures and scriptures.

### *When the Moon Hits Your Eye* by John Scalzi (2025)

Scalzi has been on a tear lately, but this is his most heartfelt and raw book I’ve read yet. Yes, it’s about “what if the moon turned into cheese”; what it’s really about is how our shared reality isn’t supposed to be up for debate, how we should see what’s going on around us and care for one another compassionately then think through the problems we all face. Or, you know, we could not, because \*gestures broadly\*, and see how well that’s going for us.

### *Atmosphere* by Taylor Jenkins Reid (2025)

Reid mashed a bunch of my favorite space media – *Apollo 13* (1995), [*For All Mankind*](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt7772588/) (2019-), [*The Calculating Stars*](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33080122-the-calculating-stars) by Mary Robinette Kowal  – into a romance thriller about the deadliness of space and the unnecessary pain we put ourselves through here on Earth. It's got all the right tropes and two beautiful, frustrating leads walking a tightrope together.

### *A Memory Called Empire* by Arkady Martine (2019)

A novel about the messy symbiosis of language and culture, of incompatible norms and hiding in plain sight, this is space opera at its best. Like an ultra-distilled [Vorkosigan Saga](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vorkosigan_Saga) novel, which explains part of why I loved it so much. The other reasons are there on every page.

### Problematic fave: *Done and Dusted* by Lyla Sage (2023)

This book is mostly silly, funny, and hot, but I wish we didn’t have the male POV here at all, especially in the first third when he’s a possessive douchebag. Once that’s over we can have fun with the “they shouldn’t be doing this” flimsiness and the zen of “the West” with a cast of characters that are lived-in like some dusty blue jeans.

---

## Music

### *So Long Little Miss Sunshine* by Molly Tuttle

Laid back but earnest. “The Highway Knows” and “Oasis” are the most lovely, romantic songs I’ve heard in a long time, and the former is my song of the year.

<iframe style="border: 0; width: 100%; height: 42px;" src="https://bandcamp.com/EmbeddedPlayer/album=4123369375/size=small/bgcol=ffffff/linkcol=0687f5/track=3248424030/transparent=true/" seamless><a href="https://mollytuttle.bandcamp.com/album/so-long-little-miss-sunshine">So Long Little Miss Sunshine by Molly Tuttle</a></iframe>

> Like a river runnin' to the ocean blue\
Like a million roads leading back to you\
You're my destination, you're my last stop\
And the highway knows I'm gonna love you\
'Til the wheels fall off

### *Wild and Clear and Blue* by I'm With Her

Its inclusion on this list was a given, but the Americana supergroup’s second album, seven years after their first, is both delicate and unyielding; there’s haste and nostalgia in constantly changing measure. Seeing the trio live this year on a perfectly golden summer night in western Massachusetts was special.

<iframe style="border: 0; width: 100%; height: 42px;" src="https://bandcamp.com/EmbeddedPlayer/album=3053802909/size=small/bgcol=ffffff/linkcol=0687f5/track=2686552634/transparent=true/" seamless><a href="https://imwithher.bandcamp.com/album/wild-and-clear-and-blue">Wild and Clear and Blue by I’m With Her</a></iframe>

> Ooh, when I was nine\
Heard you singing about paradise\
"What's that?" I asked and my mama said\
"That was everywhere when I was a kid"

### The rest

- *Arcadia* by Allison Krauss & Union Station
- *Cruel Joke* by Ken Pomeroy
- *Ego Death at the Bachelorette Party* by Hayley Williams
- *Billboard Heart* by Deep Sea Diver
- *Ride on By* by Becky Buller
- “Don’t Let the Bastards Get You Down” by Margo Price
- “Rich Man” by Aespa

### Soundtracks

- *KPop Demon Hunters* by Marcelo Zarvos: The orchestral score is also great! Good blend of electronics and modern movie conventions, sort of a *Spider-Verse*-lite treatment.
- *Superman* by John Murphy & David Fleming: Soaring and classic, with the right modern touches to stay propulsive. Full of hope.
- *Predator: Badlands* by Sarah Schachner & Benjamin Wallfisch: Holy shit there are so many great sounds on here. Crunched alien voices, massive synths, brassy builds that are sharp as plasma swords. Exemplary work in establishing the Yautja as honor-bound and tradition-strangled, then getting the blood pulsing in our ears when the movie locks the fuck in. As badass as the rest of the movie. My most listened-to soundtrack of the year.

---

## *Overwatch 2*

The only game I really played this year! I dipped into some things, tried others before cancelling Game Pass, and recently started a comfort replay of *The Witcher 3* for the holidays, but *Overwatch 2* has been stalwart. It’s my primary “hang out” game but it’s also a game I’m actually good at, so I can wrack up a mean kill count and feel accomplished in just a few rounds. I’ve even invested time into branching out from Moira and Bastion; I’m one of the weird people that enjoys Mystery Heroes mode.

It always comes back to characters. No other live-service game has characters I give a shit about, and I love the cast of *Overwatch*. I love their banter, their mix of overly serious and “here for fun” vibes, and that most everyone is hot without being crass and cloying about it like *Marvel: Rivals*, for example. I added my favorite voice lines to the random tagline feature of my site because they make me smile and feel positive, which is not the emotion most would associate with a competitive online hero shooter. “Through hardship, to the stars!”

## Dropout

Chaotic joy. I don’t remember when I found [Dropout](https://www.dropout.tv/), I don’t remember how I found Dropout, but I know that it’s the subscription I never question. There’s no reason not to pay the measly monthly price for a roster of unpredictable comedy nerds operating at the highest level. *Game Changer* was bonkers this year but my heart might belong to *Make Some Noise*, where every little choice can build and spark something you can’t see anywhere else.

There are too many great clips to link but here are some from this year:

- [The Person In Front of You At The Bank The One Time All Year You Have To Go Inside](https://youtube.com/shorts/QTWgRSOizBM?si=tkf7p5dixGfxx0a_)
- [Name that Mobster Challenge](https://www.youtube.com/shorts/HvqmcksHmO4)
- [What's the Only Thing Cooler Than a Jet Ski?](https://www.youtube.com/shorts/WdNWfNxds_4)
- [Jeremy Figures Out The Ultimate Rule Swap](https://www.youtube.com/shorts/hHzKkuXsSwM)

## 2026

I understand academically that this upcoming year will happen, but it’s firmly in the fog of war. I don’t know what movies, games, books, music, or anything else are coming because this year has ground us down to Gollum-like ghouls in the dark, eyes glowing hunched over my hard-earned frosty fish. I bet I’ll find something good, but it’s better when something good finds me.