---
title: We’re so (begrudgingly) back (on Windows)
date: '2026-03-18T21:09:22-04:00'
subtitle:
summary: The year of the of Linux desktop is dead, long live the year of the Linux desktop. It lasted three months. It was going fine until *Marathon* came out.
tags: [tech, linux]
---

The year of the of Linux desktop is dead, long live the year of the Linux desktop. It lasted [three months](/blog/2025/12/replacing-windows-with-bazzite/). It was going... *fine*. It wasn’t “going” at all: after a few honeymoon moments with *The Witcher 3* and *Forza Horizon 5*, the new gaming desktop sat unused for weeks and weeks.

Then *Marathon* came out. The initial trailers had me cautiously curious[^1], then [reactions to early gameplay](https://blog.aurahack.ca/marathon/) had me feeling good about this not being at all my kind of thing, gameplay-wise. “Extraction shooter” as a genre title is about as off-putting as one can get, and with my continuing infatuation with *Overwatch* I’m looking for friendly-enough competition not dispassionate throat-cutting. But the visuals, the robots, the echoes of *PUBG* past and the “one more run”.... Friends did the server slam, bought the game on launch day, and made a whole Discord channel for discussing it.

Meanwhile I’ve been in a reading slump since the triumphant [*The Red Winter* by Camera Sullivan](https://app.thestorygraph.com/books/bea25c48-e6b2-45cd-b9fb-26a305141c30) and the days are brutally cold and blustery again. FOMO hit hard!

Fuck [kernel level anti-cheat](https://www.pcgamer.com/according-to-experts-on-kernel-level-anticheat-two-things-are-abundantly-clear-1-its-not-perfect-and-2-its-not-going-anywhere/). I’m not an expert and I’m not going to litigate it, but its earned toxicity from me for two reasons:

1) It is incredibly complex software that the average consumer doesn’t understand but is required for these games, so it becomes yet another dark pattern of clicking yes without reading, which is an unscrupulous behavior we’ve all been trained to do.
2) I had to reinstall Windows to play *Marathon*, which uses BattlEye.

The truth is the one game I play reliably is *Overwatch* and the only game I’ve wanted to play more quickly became *Marathon*. The former suffers a memory leak that made it unplayable on Linux, so I was paying $20/month for GeForce Now for *one* game; the latter game isn’t on GeForce Now and explicitly lists Windows in its system requirements. My brand new desktop was gathering dust. I sighed and re-installed my least favorite operating system.

From the start it was frustrating! Since writing my guide for making Windows [“palatable”](/blog/2024/09/reinstall-windows-with-ctt-and-microwin/) in 2024, Windows has assuredly gotten worse, to the point that Nilay Patel at the *Verge* has argued on the the *Vergecast* that Microsoft should stop trying to make consumer software altogether and focus on enterprise. *Ars Technica* writes a guide for each major release of the OS on how to [“declutter, quiet down, and take the AI out of Windows”](https://arstechnica.com/gadgets/2025/11/what-i-do-to-clean-up-a-clean-install-of-windows-11-23h2-and-edge/). Options like [Tiny11](https://github.com/ntdevlabs/tiny11builder) and [AtlasOS](https://github.com/Atlas-OS/Atlas)[^2] exist to automate debloating, but I wanted something tried and true.

No dice! Microwin has been removed from the Chris Titus Tech Utility and made into standalone software in a new language and in a repo marked alpha with three contributors. No thanks. Instead I generated an [unattended install file](https://schneegans.de/windows/unattend-generator/), which was the second most-important part of this process, and hoped I did it right given the dozens of options. I stuck that dreaded 25H2 ISO onto my Ventoy USB drive along with the `unattended.xml` and let it rip.

The unattended install did work as planned and I followed my own next steps: I ran Windows updates and made sure Winget was working. I ran the Chris Titus Tech Utility and used its interface to download the programs I needed as I had no historical Winget manifest and the utility now uses Winget (a great move). I ran the standard tweaks, set Windows updates to delay, and rebooted.

Now I had to activate Windows because this was brand new hardware, and this wasn’t that big a deal in the end but I do want the universe to know I **fucking hate Windows** for this kind of shit. My license for Windows 11 is attached to my Windows account. I couldn’t find a way to view that license and enter it into the OS as a key; the “activate” button in the settings menu reported that it was broken and needed to run troubleshooting. The troubleshooting said I needed to sign into Windows with my Microsoft account. I did so, in a floating window that didn’t render the Microsoft login flow properly and was in Times New Roman while trying to access a passkey that didn’t exist, and suddenly it had changed my local administrator account into a Microsoft-synced account, so when the computer rebooted I had to enter my full Microsoft account password, go to settings, and try the option to disconnect my account and transition *back* to a local-only administrator account and hope that the OS kept the key. Awful! Confusing! Dark patterns! Fuck your account! Vomit vomit vomit!

A bit more finagling later – Windows didn’t install Nvidia drivers, which Bazzite did without a peep – and yes, it’s all running fine. The unattended install file is hugely helpful in skipping clicking through settings for all sorts of crap, and I didn’t realize how powerful it can be. It set a non-default background, configured wi-fi, set appearance settings for best performance, disabled widgets, and got rid of all the pins in the start menu. Fabulous stuff.

I’m enjoying *Marathon* a lot, even though it leaves me rattled and shaky after a successful exfil by the synth-skin of my shell, but I deeply resent having to come back to this debased, garbage OS. I’m very lucky to have other computers, because between Windows 11 being shit and kernel-level anti-cheat I genuinely wouldn’t trust a Windows desktop with my data as my primary computer, and would resent trying to get anything done[^3] with it. Fuck you Windows I’ll see you tomorrow.

[^1]: The [launch cinematic](https://youtu.be/vtw5BDpKgJM?si=WyAH_s-7wtr1F0rx) is an example of something I’m trying to figure out how to communicate about the over-produced business of glitches as an aesthetic. (It’s also directed by Harmony Korine, which sure is something.) The other is the entirety of [*Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse*](https://youtu.be/cqGjhVJWtEg?si=Qregb_pVcuV6ClR0), which almost did me in when we saw it in IMAX. There’s always one or two layers too much, or the glitch goes on a beat too long, or the delta from the original image to glitch is too high for my eyes to handle. It feels like this is a me thing – I wear earplugs to movies by default, I’m sensitive to aggressive input – but I hope someone out there agrees with me.

[^2]: nathan uses AtlasOS and confidently reports no problems after months of usage, so it’s worth checking out. The ISO injection is marked as “experimental” and Atlas’ documentation does a bad job of explaining the basics of what it even is. It refers to a “Playbook” and “AME Wizard”, itself a [beta software](https://amelabs.net/) for modifying Windows with YAML, but Atlas also refers to “Installing AtlasOS”, which isn’t technically a thing. Bad technical writing doesn’t sow confidence.

[^3]: There’s no equivalent to [`caffeinate`](https://james.brooks.page/blog/macos-caffeinate-command) on Windows, there’s instead the incredibly dated shutdown command in the command line, which takes as an argument **the number of seconds to wait until shutting down**. (For example, a four timer becomes `shutdown -s -t 14400`.) This command doesn’t keep the computer awake either, but to change that you have to use Powershell to [change your power plan](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-hardware/design/device-experiences/powercfg-command-line-options) to not go on standby when plugged into AC power. Lunacy.