---
title: '2024-10-27'
---
Even if you've managed to stay away from TikTok and Instagram Reels but, like most people on Earth, use YouTube, you might have fallen into the gravitational pull of its vertical short-form interlopers. I finally had enough of my own brain sabotaging me and found a useful if somewhat extreme solution.

By navigating to the Google account settings for [your YouTube data](https://myaccount.google.com/u/0/yourdata/youtube), you can disable both your watch history and search history entirely. (You might want to do this for privacy reasons, but I'll admit mine was as an intervention.) By doing so, YouTube cuts you off from Shorts and the algorithmically-recommended homepage, two of the most ubiquitous vectors of distraction in the known universe.

Combine this with one of my favorite browser extensions, [Unhook](https://unhook.app/), and you can make YouTube be nothing but subscriptions, a.k.a. the content you give a shit about. You'll find there's a lot less of it than you thought, and find yourself flailing for a video you remembered enjoying one time, who knows when, to put on while you're on your lunch break. It sucks, but I'm thinking it'll be worth it.

There is a serious downside, however: by disabling your watch history, YouTube callously won't remember how far you were into any particular video, which can be a pain in the ass for video essays or game streams, for example. The solution is to kick it old school and bookmark the video with the timestamp. I can't find any evidence of when the Watch Later playlist came into being, but this is how we used to do it back in the bronze age.
