---
title: '2024-11-16'
---
In honor of it's 20th anniversary, *Half-Life 2* got a [big ol' update](https://store.steampowered.com/news/app/220?emclan=103582791433473994&emgid=6633333780228604001) and I gave it yet another shot, by memory the third time I've tried the classic and influential FPS.

Sorry folks, I can't do it. I imagine this is similar – and similarly frustrating – to people saying "I can't watch movies from the 70s". There are affordances for the audience the more modern a medium is, and while sometimes the *lack* of those affordances can be what makes a piece enjoyable, sometimes it stinks. That's before getting to historical context and styles or staples of the time, which to be fair, are what grated on me more in the hour and a half I managed in *HL2* before I had to quit:

- Very modal gameplay – now you do puzzles, now you do a turret sequence, now you're on the airboat. Variety is good, but it doesn't create a cohesive flow for the adventure because there can be half a dozen modes in a single level.
- Vague industrial spaces – I've always hated these nonsensical, ugly, cramped spaces in games because freedom of movement is one of my favorite things in any game! Give me the wide open spaces of *Far Cry*, *Halo 2*, or *Tribes: Vengeance* – which all came out the same year – any day.
- The hideous, brutalist soundscape. Valve's re-use of admittedly iconic sound effects is notorious, but their original implementations are frequently ill-advised. The squeal of combine life monitors after every single one of them dies, the particular report of the 9mm pistol, the blonks and bloops of interacting with objects; none of these sound good to my ears, and though they may match the drab, sharp aesthetic that doesn't make them any more fun to blast into your ears.
- The silent protagonist was a staple of the time, and I'm not going to pretend there's an obvious better solution – their commitment to the bit is staked out early in Alyx's line "A man of few words, aren't you?" – but that doesn't make me feel like less of a buffoon next to the well-voiced, well-animated characters moving around in their little sets like I'm a rube who wandered onstage.

I'll continue to wallow in FOMO, happy for the folks who love these games and wondering when the hell a remaster of *[No One Lives Forever 2: A Spy in H.A.R.M.'s Way](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/No_One_Lives_Forever_2:_A_Spy_in_H.A.R.M.%27s_Way)* is coming.

See also my [general struggle with games lately]({{<ref "/blog/2024-10-30 Did Echo Point Nova Kill Gaming.md">}}) – it feels like my brain has been re-wired and doesn't get the joy it used to from pushing pixels.
