---
title: '2025-04-21'
date: 2025-04-21T11:58:04-04:00
---

I finished a replay of *Dishonored* (2012!) this morning and in addition to it being excellent and timeless, it’s worth noting its place in a special time of experimentation in game development through DLC. As the PS3 and Xbox 360 matured, their online components grew into core platform features and lots of cool art came out of that – Xbox Live Arcade, Telltale’s  episodic games, and great developers took a swing at making cool, exploratory, innovative DLC (cool people call them “expansion packs”). There’s a lot of interesting legacy from these:

- *Bioshock 2*’s *Minerva’s Den* DLC is Steve Gaynor’s first project as a lead, which leads him to start The Fullbright Company and make *Gone Home* (2013) and *Tacoma* (2018)
- *Dishonored*’s DLCs – *The Knife of Dunwall* and *The Brigmore Witches* – are two parts of the same story and set up *Dishonored 2* (2016), which I didn’t know and am excited to finally play!
- *Far Cry 3: Blood Dragon* (2013) is a blast and arguably one of the best *Far Cry* games, period. Later, *Far Cry 5* comes back to the idea of putting DLC in different universes to mixed results except for the surprisingly brilliant *Hours of Darkness*.
- I have a lot of disdain for *Bioshock: Infinite* (2013), but I haven’t gotten the chance yet to play the well-regarded but overpriced *Burial at Sea* expansion that returns to Rapture but places the characters from *Infinite* in its murky depths, which is a fun meta-textual pitch.
- *The Last of Us* (2013) released the *Left Behind* DLC and fleshed out Ellie’s foundational relationship while making something that for me is a lot more palatable than the main game – to this day I’ve never finished the main game, but have fond memories of *Left Behind*. Sometimes less is more.
- The most important of all these is without a doubt *The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt – Blood and Wine* (2015), which brings the story of *The Witcher 3* to a proper close, brings us to my beloved Toussaint, and is by itself one of the greatest games ever made and wait why am I not playing it right now?

I could argue all of this ties back to my grand theory of “[your game is way too long](https://www.ign.com/articles/2014/03/17/gdc-most-players-donat-finish-games)”, but it’s true that these expansions exist because once the main game was done developers needed to be paid and the stakes were a lot lower for experimentation. Narrative is cheaper than design, and games in general were a lot cheaper to make then than they are now.