---
title: '2025-10-31'
date: 2025-10-31T21:27:36-04:00
---
Best Halloween we’ve had in years. As the sun slinked behind billowing clouds the wind started howling, making all the lawn decorations in our new neighborhood bend and twirl; Emily carved a howling wolf into a huge pumpkin as I put on [*Hocus Pocus*](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0107120/) (1993).

(I started *Halloween* (1978) but I’ll admit it was too slow for the mood I was in, and set in California which I wrinkle my nose at – our New England autumns are unparalleled. Our alternate agreed with me; the protagonist of *Hocus Pocus* immediately gets roasted for being a tie-dye wearing California 90s kid. *Hocus Pocus*’s exteriors were filmed in Salem and Marblehead.)

Our landlords put out a bowl of candy, but once that ran dry I was happy to go to the door for a few groups of tweens. Nothing special, but the idea of anyone dressing up and braving the tempest for no candy I couldn’t let stand. A nearby neighbor has one of those ten-foot skeletons with LCD eyes, blinking radioactive green. I want that when I grow up, to make sure everyone knows what kind of house we run.

A few weeks ago, when it was possible to wrangle a quorum of thirty-somethings, we had a modest but really fun Halloween party. A skull candle bled red wax out its eyes; Emily hand-made a black yarn spider and its web with hot glue; we borrowed *Betrayal at House on the Hill* from the library and ran it for everyone while players sipped mulled apple cider with bourbon.

Tonight, when Emily was done carving, we filled the pumpkin with candles and roasted the seeds in maple syrup. The apartment smells wonderful, the gusts continue to threaten the windows, and there’s a flickering shrine to All Hallow’s Eve on the dining table. Perfect.