---
title: '2025-09-13'
date: 2025-09-13T10:42:10-04:00
---
I'm on a desk minimalism kick and am trying to get as many USB bits and bobs tucked away as I can; I got influenced by DMS' video about using [only a dongle DAC](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v5qenyVwumg) and bought the [Questyle M15C](https://headfonics.com/questyle-m15c-review/) to replace my wonderful but clunky and rather ugly [JDS Labs Atom Stack](https://jdslabs.com/shop/?category=line-atom-line). If all that's Greek to you, sorry, but the point is I want less on my desk but all the quality I desire for good audio.

One of my earlier and not-as-good blog posts in this particular renaissance was about [please, buy good headphones]({{<relref "/blog/2024-03-01-your-life-is-too-beautiful-to-use-shitty-headphones">}}) and I stand by the points. You love music, I know you do, so you should be listening with headphones that are good. An itty-bitty dongle DAC is the logical next step, and there's plenty of innovation going on so they're getting cheaper and better and smaller, which I love.

A "me" concern is that I need the additional fine-grain control over volume. I need an amplifier that can get *quiet* while being clean and full. The Questyle is hitting that mark, even if I had to learn that holding <kbd>option</kbd> + <kbd>shift</kbd> while changing volume on macOS lets you dial it in with 1/4 bar increments, something Apple doesn't bother to mention in their own documentation. I'll mourn the loss of a big ol' volume knob, but it'll be worth it for less black plastic on my desk and more room for pens, journals, and knick-knacks.