---
title: '2025-03-06'
date: 2025-03-06T20:34:31-05:00
---
The idea of [Discord doing an IPO](https://www.nytimes.com/2025/03/05/technology/discord-ipo.html) makes me nauseous. I *get* it, like how I get that leopard seals have to eat penguins, and any corporation that is valued – albeit bafflingly – at more than $10 billion is going to act like a predator eventually. What I don't get is what it accomplishes – surely selling profile decorations for $11 a pop and hosting terabytes of deep-fried memes is a great revenue model with a long waiting list of potential investors.

And I'm part of the problem! I've never paid for Discord Nitro because I both saw no value in it (I don't give a shit about my profile being shiny) and never felt compelled (hosting a server for my friends is free somehow). Discord makes no money from me hosting the majority of my social life on its platform, so I can't reasonably be upset when they become worse because someone else comes along with cash. I was banking on the whales to be enough, forever. Maybe that's my fault.

If the dreaded enshittification comes, however, they've got me locked in. People are the hardest to move of all and Discord happened over 8 years, only in the last two of which the people I love closest to "normies" logged on. I can't tell my writing group to suffer Matrix (hosted by whom?) and I can't imagine living in a tangle of single-threaded text groups – asynchronous communication should be multi-faceted.

So I'll suffer what Wall Street brings to the dumb little Chat for Gamers platform that could. I don't look forward to it.