---
title: '2026-03-28'
date: 2026-03-28T10:27:09-04:00
---
I’m loving [*Marathon*](https://www.marathonthegame.com/). The aesthetic, the game feel, and the sound design are all sick as hell and unique. I’ve been listening to Ryan Lott’s soundtrack (as long as I can before it stresses me out) and want to be in this world.

Bungie is even doing a great job rapidly updating the game to both keep things fresh (my theory is they’re terrified of former *Destiny* endgamers) and to tweak things for the better. Still, here are some fussy but helpful things I think should come soon: 

- Let me review my contract on the loading screen so I can plan better with my team
- Make more loading screens. There are only 3 and they’re pretty short video loops. Loading times run a bit long but that’d be fine if I wasn’t seeing the same thing over and over again. Ideally they’d have less movement too.
- Speaking of which, an accessibility toggle to “reduce UI movement” or similar. I get and like the glitch aesthetic but it’s a lot and gets exhausting.
- Redesign the codex and faction menus to reduce the number of clicks and full page layout changes. There’s a lot of cool information in there but it’s buried and visually tiring to try and absorb, uncomfortable to explore.
- A way to re-trigger conversations with agents. There’s some fun, flavorful writing in the game that I’m rapidly skipping over because I’m on a Discord call and between matches I don’t want to tell my friends to shush because my visual novel is talking over them. I **want** the lore, but it’s got to be async, on my terms.

I’ll add more as I think of them. Ironically I don’t mind the difficulty of the game, but I do mind the difficulty of the graphic design and usability of everything. I don’t want “Dark Souls for UX”, and I need to keep my eyes working so I can spot shells across Outpost.
