---
title: '2026-02-26'
date: 2026-02-26T09:21:20-05:00
---

The Daily Show did a frustratingly softball [interview](https://youtu.be/t7SCT3w40M4?si=74utL7ni_s_rxPS7) with Jonathan Haidt and Catherine Price, co-authors of the graphic novel for kids version of Haidt’s blockbuster social science polemic *The Anxious Generation* (2024), [*The Amazing Generation*](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/233579322-the-amazing-generation?ref=nav_sb_ss_1_22). I shouldn’t be surprised, but Haidt manages to come off poorly while his co-author tempers some of his worst tendencies, and host Desi Lydic (who I usually love) doesn’t have the time or interest to complicate their (his) assertions.

Haidt quickly invokes dead kids, saying social media has directly killed “thousands” of them, and “dadsplains” to Lydic about the right way to encourage her son to read the book right after she compliments them on it. He applauds nations and states for enacting social media age restrictions, but there’s no counter that to do is to force the surveillance state on everyone, including younger people who might need online outlets to learn, be fulfilled, or be safe. He plays to the nostalgia of childhood in the 80s and 90s, when kids were out “riding bicycles... and getting ice cream while everybody else has to stay under supervision”. Who exactly was out riding bicycles and getting ice cream? Why were they able to do that? Within his own example he says some kids were locked away – who were those kids, and why were they in that situation? They weren’t on Facebook, but they weren’t at the rollerblade rink with quarters in their pocket, so what were they, Jonathan?

Luckily Price is there to keep things focused and her contributions to *The Amazing Generation* seem to be the more useful ones, namely “The Rebel’s Code”, a solid framework for its young readers: “Use technology as a tool – don’t let technology use you”. I can’t agree more emphatically, and what a wonderful thing to lead kids to teach themselves by branding it as rebellion. Make it **cool** to be offline, make it **uncool** to scroll at the dinner table.

While we’re at it, make it uncool to be the only industrialized nation to have no federally mandated paid leave or [paternal leave](https://www.pewresearch.org/short-reads/2019/12/16/u-s-lacks-mandated-paid-parental-leave/). Perhaps parents engage with what Haidt calls “safetyism” – a form of parenting that minimize risks that kids take, mental and physical – because Americans are [already in medical debt](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC11918610/) and can’t afford more when their kid chips a tooth while trespassing or needs to go therapy because you showed them *The NeverEnding Story* to illustrate that kids need to go on “adventures”.

What makes the discourse machine that is *The Anxious Generation* frustrating is that I agree with Haidt on many points: I don’t think kids should be on social media, or that social media should be filled with dark, addictive patterns, and that big tech companies should be held accountable and steadfastly regulated. I’ve written on this silly blog many times about trying to [become more analog](/blog/2025/09/more-analog/) and making your phone into a [smart tool](/blog/2025/04/revenge-of-the-dumbphone/). Haidt’s propensity for stepping in it and appealing to an expiring fantasy of nostalgic childhood when he speaks undercuts his message and calls his methods into question.

This is before more thorough academic scrutiny of his work: when a professor of psychological science [critiqued](https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-024-00902-2) *The Anxious Generation* for reducing the issue to “it’s always the phones”, Haidt [argued back](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Anxious_Generation#Academic_reviews) on, of all places, Twitter.
