---
title: '2026-05-13'
date: 2026-05-13T15:10:09-04:00
---
Noah Kahan’s new album (and sublime [Tiny Desk set](https://youtu.be/M34D3Ktovfw?si=gXQ73RP0bSdM-Zvz)) is ushering in a season of sad boy music – in an [interview](https://youtu.be/n6dpzerZw8U?si=pr833A7KlKBvhyW4) with Seth Meyers he disclaims “It happens to be coming out in summer. It’s sad, winter vibes” – but I’m enjoying similarly sad TikTok contemporary Petey USA more.

Superficial similarities aside – long-haired white dudes waxing poetic about their problems and prescriptions – maybe it’s my specific mental illness but Petey’s obtuseness and vocal edge appeal more. Kahan is a talented lyricist for sure, but there’s something tidy and round about his tracks. Hannah Jocelyn put it devastatingly well for *[Pitchfork](https://pitchfork.com/reviews/albums/noah-kahan-the-great-divide/)*:

> Ask his diehard fans, and Vermont songwriter Noah Kahan might have saved their life; ask skeptics, and Kahan is simply riding early-2010s stomp-clap nostalgia; ask the man himself, and Republic only signed him because he “kinda looks like Hozier.” 

If Kahan is *The Holdovers*, Petey is *The Virgin Suicides*. His business strategy isn’t as sound – naming an album “USA” then changing his name to “Petey USA”, for example – but the production is more varied and more addictively constructed while the lyrics get stuck like a splinter. A couple of snippets that have been sticking with me:

> 'Cause if ya never showed me Bambi\
I could breathe instead of panic\
I’d provide for a family six\
\- “Family of Six”

> I heard you took a class on breath work, uh huh\
Did you get claw hands?\
Tell me, did you feel like a lobster?\
Or an ancient plant?\
I kinda feel like that without trying\
Not on my own terms\
I was in the grocery store crying\
Overwhelmed by choices\
\- “I’ll Wait”

> Hell, what to I need? I need the freedom to feel good\
If happiness is a choice then I'd choose it every second if I could\
\-"The Freedom to Fuck Off"

Emily says she can’t get into Petey as easily as Kahan because of his sudden dips into ragged shouts, but for me that’s *the* thing. I feel like we’re shouting together, and isn’t that what it’s all about?